README.md, before:

# muddy

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/muddy.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/muddy)

**muddy** is a python package and CLI tool for generating MUD files ([RFC8520](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8520)).

## Usage

There are multiple ways to generate MUD objects, depending on the level of abstraction:

In class form, one would use as follows:

```python
from muddy.muddy.mud import MUD
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = MUD(mud_version=1, mud_url='https://lighting.example.com/hvac1.json', cache_validity=48, is_supported=True,
          system_info='The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
          documentation='https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation',
          mfg_name='Example Manufacturer', ip_version=IPVersion.BOTH)

mud.add_rule(target_url="https://bacnet.honeywell.com", protocol=Protocol.TCP, match_type=MatchType.IS_CLOUD,
             direction_initiated=Direction.TO_DEVICE, local_port=44, remote_port=44)

mud.make_mud()
mud.print_mud()
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.mud import MUD
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = MUD(mud_version=1, mud_url='https://lighting.example.com/hvac1.json', cache_validity=48, is_supported=True,
          system_info='The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
          documentation='https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation',
          mfg_name='Example Manufacturer', ip_version=IPVersion.BOTH)

rule_list = []

...
# Data stored in data_dict: type(data_dict) == dict
rule_list.append(data_dict.copy())
...

for rule in rule_list:
    mud.add_rule(target_url=rule['target_url'], protocol=rule['protocol'],
                 match_type=rule['match_type'], direction_initiated=rule['direction_initiated'],
                 local_port=rule['local_port'], remote_port=rule['remote_port'])

mud.make_mud()
mud.print_mud()
```

To obtain JSON for a MUD object, you may just use `json.dumps(mud.mudfile)`.

Previously developed methods are still supported and are shown below:

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = make_mud(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True, 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation', [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE],
 IPVersion.IPV4, 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, MatchType.IS_MYMFG, [88,443], [88,443])
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_support_info
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

support_info = make_support_info(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True,
 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')

mud = make_mud(support_info , [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE],
 IPVersion.IPV4, 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG)
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_acl_names, make_policy, make_acls
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType
import random

mud_name = f'mud-{random.randint(10000, 99999)}'
acl = []
policies = {}
for direction_initiated in [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE]:
    acl_names = make_acl_names(mud_name, IPVersion.IPV4, direction_initiated)
    policies.update(make_policy(direction_initiated, acl_names))
    acl.append(make_acls([IPVersion.IPV4], 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG,
    direction_initiated, acl_names))

mud = make_mud(policies, acl, 1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True, 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_acl_names, make_policy, make_acls, make_support_info
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType
import random

support_info = make_support_info(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True,
 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')


mud_name = f'mud-{random.randint(10000, 99999)}'
acl = []
policies = {}
for direction_initiated in [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE]:
    acl_names = make_acl_names(mud_name, IPVersion.IPV4, direction_initiated)
    policies.update(make_policy(direction_initiated, acl_names))
    acl.append(make_acls([IPVersion.IPV4], 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG,
    direction_initiated,acl_names))

mud = make_mud(support_info, policies, acl)
```

To obtain JSON for a MUD object, you may just use `json.dumps(mud)`.

## Example output

```json
{
  "ietf-mud:mud": {
    "mud-version": 1,
    "mud-url": "https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000",
    "last-update": "2019-07-23T19:54:24",
    "cache-validity": 48,
    "is-supported": true,
    "systeminfo": "The BMS Example Light Bulb",
    "documentation": "https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation",
    "to-device-policy": {
      "access-lists": {
        "access-list": [
          {
            "name": "mud-52892-v4to"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "from-device-policy": {
      "access-lists": {
        "access-list": [
          {
            "name": "mud-52892-v4fr"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "mud-52892-v4to",
        "type": "ipv4",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "myman0-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman2-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "name": "mud-52892-v4fr",
        "type": "ipv4",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "myman0-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman2-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Added a couple lines for installation

README.md, after:

# muddy

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/muddy.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/muddy)

**muddy** is a python package and CLI tool for generating MUD files ([RFC8520](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8520)).

## Installation

Navigate into the root directory where the repository was cloned and run the following commands in the terminal:
1. `pip3 install -r requirement.txt`
2. `python3 setup.py`

## Usage

There are multiple ways to generate MUD objects, depending on the level of abstraction:

In class form, one would use as follows:

```python
from muddy.muddy.mud import MUD
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = MUD(mud_version=1, mud_url='https://lighting.example.com/hvac1.json', cache_validity=48, is_supported=True,
          system_info='The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
          documentation='https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation',
          mfg_name='Example Manufacturer', ip_version=IPVersion.BOTH)

mud.add_rule(target_url="https://bacnet.honeywell.com", protocol=Protocol.TCP, match_type=MatchType.IS_CLOUD,
             direction_initiated=Direction.TO_DEVICE, local_port=44, remote_port=44)

mud.make_mud()
mud.print_mud()
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.mud import MUD
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = MUD(mud_version=1, mud_url='https://lighting.example.com/hvac1.json', cache_validity=48, is_supported=True,
          system_info='The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
          documentation='https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation',
          mfg_name='Example Manufacturer', ip_version=IPVersion.BOTH)

rule_list = []

...
# Data stored in data_dict: type(data_dict) == dict
rule_list.append(data_dict.copy())
...

for rule in rule_list:
    mud.add_rule(target_url=rule['target_url'], protocol=rule['protocol'],
                 match_type=rule['match_type'], direction_initiated=rule['direction_initiated'],
                 local_port=rule['local_port'], remote_port=rule['remote_port'])

mud.make_mud()
mud.print_mud()
```

To obtain JSON for a MUD object, you may just use `json.dumps(mud.mudfile)`.

Previously developed methods are still supported and are shown below:

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

mud = make_mud(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True, 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation', [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE],
 IPVersion.IPV4, 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, MatchType.IS_MYMFG, [88,443], [88,443])
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_support_info
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType

support_info = make_support_info(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True,
 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')

mud = make_mud(support_info , [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE],
 IPVersion.IPV4, 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG)
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_acl_names, make_policy, make_acls
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType
import random

mud_name = f'mud-{random.randint(10000, 99999)}'
acl = []
policies = {}
for direction_initiated in [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE]:
    acl_names = make_acl_names(mud_name, IPVersion.IPV4, direction_initiated)
    policies.update(make_policy(direction_initiated, acl_names))
    acl.append(make_acls([IPVersion.IPV4], 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG,
    direction_initiated, acl_names))

mud = make_mud(policies, acl, 1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True, 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 
'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')
```

or

```python
from muddy.muddy.maker import make_mud, make_acl_names, make_policy, make_acls, make_support_info
from muddy.muddy.models import Direction, IPVersion, Protocol, MatchType
import random

support_info = make_support_info(1,'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000', 48, True,
 'The BMS Example Light Bulb', 'https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation')


mud_name = f'mud-{random.randint(10000, 99999)}'
acl = []
policies = {}
for direction_initiated in [Direction.TO_DEVICE,Direction.FROM_DEVICE]:
    acl_names = make_acl_names(mud_name, IPVersion.IPV4, direction_initiated)
    policies.update(make_policy(direction_initiated, acl_names))
    acl.append(make_acls([IPVersion.IPV4], 'test.example.com', Protocol.ANY, [88,443], [88,443], MatchType.IS_MYMFG,
    direction_initiated,acl_names))

mud = make_mud(support_info, policies, acl)
```

To obtain JSON for a MUD object, you may just use `json.dumps(mud)`.

## Example output

```json
{
  "ietf-mud:mud": {
    "mud-version": 1,
    "mud-url": "https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000",
    "last-update": "2019-07-23T19:54:24",
    "cache-validity": 48,
    "is-supported": true,
    "systeminfo": "The BMS Example Light Bulb",
    "documentation": "https://lighting.example.com/lightbulb2000/documentation",
    "to-device-policy": {
      "access-lists": {
        "access-list": [
          {
            "name": "mud-52892-v4to"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "from-device-policy": {
      "access-lists": {
        "access-list": [
          {
            "name": "mud-52892-v4fr"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "ietf-access-control-list:acls": {
    "acl": [
      {
        "name": "mud-52892-v4to",
        "type": "ipv4",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "myman0-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman2-todev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      {
        "name": "mud-52892-v4fr",
        "type": "ipv4",
        "aces": {
          "ace": [
            {
              "name": "myman0-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman1-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            },
            {
              "name": "myman2-frdev",
              "matches": {
                "ietf-mud:mud": {
                  "same-manufacturer": []
                }
              },
              "actions": {
                "forwarding": "accept"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
